=head1 NAME

Leyland::Manual - Manual for the Leyland web application framework

=head1 WHAT IS LEYLAND

	This section is just a copy of L<Leyland/"DESCRIPTION">.

Leyland is a L<Plack>-based application framework for building truely
RESTful, MVC-style web applications.

"Another application framework?" you ask? Well yes! You see, after several
years of L<Catalyst> development, I grew tired of Catalyst's bloat, and
the fact that it made it very hard (pretty much impossible if you ask me)
to create truely RESTful applications. I then moved for a short while to
L<Dancer>, which had a nice syntax for defining routes and had at least some REST properties,
but I quickly found it didn't fit my needs as well, and that it also made
it very difficult to write truely RESTful applications. I also really missed
Catalyst's "context object" and some of its other features, and simply
couldn't get used to Dancer's whole functional syntax you're supposed to
use inside your routes. While there were quite a few other options on CPAN,
I didn't like any of them, plus pretty much none of them were native Plack
frameworks, which for me is a bit of a minus (can't blame them though as
most of them predate Plack), so I decided to create my own framework,
based on Plack and designed to my liking. This is the mess that I've created.
You will find that it mostly resembles Catalyst, while providing a syntax
mostly similar to Dancer, but with a lot of crazy ideas of its own.

=head2 FEATURES

=over

=item * Build truely RESTful web applications - Leyland was designed from
the ground up according to the Representational State Transfer style of
software architecture. Leyland applications perform real HTTP negotiations,
(can) provide different representations of the same resource easily, respond
with proper HTTP status codes, throw real HTTP exceptions, etc.

=item * Automatic data (de)serialization - Leyland does by itself the boring task
of serializing resources to representations in the format your client
wants to receive, like JSON and XML. It will also deserialize JSON/XML
requests to Perl data-structures automatically.

=item * Pure UTF-8 - Leyland applications are pure UTF-8. Anything your
application receives is automatically UTF-8 decoded, and anything your
application sends is automatically UTF-8 encoded. Leyland apps will not
accept, nor provide, content in a different character set. If you want to
use different/multiple encodings, then Leyland is not for you.

=item * Localize for the client, not the server - Pretty much every other
application framework only concerns itself with localizing the application
to the locale of the machine on which it is running. I find that this is
rarely useful nor interesting to the application developer. Leyland localizes for
the client, not the server. If the client wants to view your application
(which may be a simple website) in Hebrew, and your application supports
Hebrew, then you can easily provide him with Hebrew representations.
Leyland uses L<Locale::Wolowitz> for this purpose.

=item * Easy deployment and middleware support via L<Plack> - Leyland doesn't
support Plack, it is dependant on it. Leyland's entire session support,
for example, depends on Plack's L<Session|Plack::Middleware::Session>
middleware. Use the full power of Plack in your Leyland application.

=item * Less code, better programs - One thing I really hated about Catalyst
was that I had to create stupid pointless classes that don't do anything
but wrap a base class, just so I can have a new view class or something.
While not as lightweight as Dancer, Leyland does a lot of the boring work
for you, so you can concentrate more on your application.

=item * Flexible, extensible, unbreakable - Well, it's not unbreakable,
but Leyland was designed to be as flexible and as extensible as possible - where
flexibility matters, and strict - where constistency and convention are appropriate.
Leyland goes to great lengths to give you the ability to do things the
way you want to, and more importantly - the way your end-users want to.
Your applications listen to your users' preferences and automatically decide on a
suitable course of action. Leyland is also L<Moose> based, making it easy
to extend and tweak its behavior.

=item * Doesn't have a pony - You don't really need a pony, do you?

=back

=head1 WHAT IS THIS MANUAL

This manual is your guide to creating Leyland-based web applications.
Hopefully, it will provide you with all the knowledge you need to create
Leyland applications and utilize its full potential.

=head1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

The guide is divided into the following sections (order purely a suggestion,
but you probably should read L<Leyland::Manual::Applications> first):

=over

=item 1. L<Leyland::Manual::Applications> - Describes Leyland application
structure and how to create (more correctly initialize) and configure
Leyland applications.

=item 2. L<Leyland::Manual::Controllers> - Describes controllers, routes,
resources, representations, etc.

=item 3. L<Leyland::Manual::Views> - Describes view classes and their usage.

=item 4. L<Leyland::Manual::Models> - Describes models and their usage.

=item 5. L<Leyland::Manual::StaticFiles> - Describes how to serve static
files from your application.

=item 6. L<Leyland::Manual::Localization> - Describes how application
localization is performed.

=item 7. L<Leyland::Manual::Logging> - Describes how to use Leyland's
logging facilities.

=item 8. L<Leyland::Manual::Exceptions> - To err is human, to throw proper
HTTP exceptions divine.

=item 9. L<Leyland::Manual::Deployment> - Describes how to run/deploy/test
Leyland applications.

=item 10. L<Leyland::Manual::Extending> - Describes how to extend Leyland.

=item 11. L<Leyland::Manual::FAQ> - Contains frequently asked questions
and their answers.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Ido Perlmuter, C<< <ido at ido50.net> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-Leyland at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Leyland>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

	perldoc Leyland::Manual

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Leyland>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Leyland>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Leyland>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Leyland/>

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010-2011 Ido Perlmuter.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
